# Understanding JSX

- Instead of writing `React.createElement`, we use an HTML-like syntax to create React elements.

- JSX is just easier to read.

- React elements can form a tree structure, just like HTML elements? This happens when we set the “children” parameter of a React element to another React element.

- In practice, we often wind up with pretty significant tree structures in our React code.

- We wrap the JSX in parentheses. This is done purely for formatting purposes. It allows us to push the JSX onto the next line. If we wanted to, we could skip the parens and keep it "inline".

- React to push the JSX onto its own line, and to use parentheses to ensure it works correctly. This is a trick we can use even outside of JSX/React. Parentheses can be used to improve formatting, like this:
```js
const friendlyGreeting =  (
  "Totally valid way to format things!"
);
```
## Compiling JSX into JavaScript
  
- If we try to run this JSX code in the browser, we'll get an error. JavaScript engines don't understand JSX, they only understand JavaScript. And so we need to "compile" our code into plain JS.

- This is most commonly done as part of a build step, using a tool like Babel

- **Here's the important thing to understand for now:** The JSX we write gets converted into `React.createElement`. By the time our code is running in the user's browser, all of the JSX has been zapped out, and we're left with a JS file full of nested `React.createElement` calls.

**“transpiled” vs. “compiled”**
- "compiling" typically refers to the process of taking human-readable code and transforming it into machine-readable code.

- The term "transpiling", by contrast, typically refers to taking one high-level language and transforming it into another high-level language. For example, we might "transpile" JavaScript into Python.

**Skipping the React import?**

Starting from React 17, the tool that compiles JSX into JavaScript will  _also import React_. The same process that turns  `<p>`  into  `React.createElement`  calls will also check for the React import, and slap it on if it's missing.

So, these days, you don't  _have_  to import React. The JSX compiler will do it for you. But I prefer to keep importing React anyway. Feels more honest / less magical.

Also, we still do need to import React in certain cases, like if we want to use hooks. By always importing React, it'll be there if/when we need it, and we never have to worry about it.