 

# useState Hook

 - Whenever we have “dynamic” values like this, we need to use React
   state. State is used for values that change over time. To create a
   state variable, we use the useState function. This function takes a
   single argument: the initial value.

 - The useState hook returns an array containing two items:
 - 
		 1. The current value of the state variable.
		 2. A function we can use to update the state variable.

## Naming conventions

  - When we create a state variable, we can name the two variables whatever we want. For example, this is equally valid:
```js
      const [hello, world] = React.useState(0);
```    
      That said, it's customary to follow the “x, setX” convention:

 - *setX - referred to as a “setter function”, since it sets the new value of the state variable.*


## Initial value

-React state variables can be given an initial value:
```js
    const [count, setCount] = React.useState(1);
    console.log(count); // 1
```
We can also supply a function. React will call this function on the very first render to calculate the initial value:
```js
    const [count, setCount] = React.useState(() => {
      return 1 + 1;
    });

    console.log(count); // 2
```
This secondary form can occasionally be useful if we need to do an expensive operation to calculate the initial value. For example, reading from localStorage:
```js
    const [count, setCount] = React.useState(() => {
      return window.localStorage.getItem('saved-count');
    });
```
The benefit here is that we're only doing the expensive work (reading from localStorage) once, on the initial render, rather than doing it on every single render.

**What exactly is the difference between these two forms?**
```js
   // Form 1:

       function  Counter()  {
          const  [count, setCount]  =  React.useState(
              window.localStorage.getItem('saved-count')
          );
        }
```     
Whenever we render the  `Counter`  component, this function will be called, and all of the code inside will run. We'll call  `window.localStorage`  on every single render, and pass the value into  `React.useState`.

  // Form 2:
Now, let's consider the secondary form:

```js
    function  Counter()  {
      const  [count, setCount]  =  React.useState(()  =>  {
      return  window.localStorage.getItem('saved-count');
      });
    }
```

In this case, we're  _creating a function_:
```js
    ()  =>  {
    
      return  window.localStorage.getItem('saved-count');
    
    }
```
This  _function_  is being passed into  `React.useState()`. And so it's up to React to decide what to do with it.

 - On the very first render, React will call this function to calculate
   the initial value. 
  - On  _subsequent_  renders, however, React ignores the function. The initial value has already been calculated, and so there's no reason to call the function again.
