# Core React Loop

- **Whenever a state variable is updated, it triggers a  _re-render_.** Once again, React will call the `Counter` function. This creates a brand-new React element, a new description of the UI we want.
- **Each render is like taking a snapshot.** We generate a description that shows what the UI should look like, based on the component's props/state. It's like a photo that captures what things were like at a moment in time.
- And so, React has two snapshots:
```html
      <button> 
        Value: 0
      </button>
        
       <button>
		Value: 1
       </button>
```
- The user clicked the button, and this second snapshot was generated. React now has to figure out how to  _update_  the DOM, so that it matches this latest snapshot.
- This process is known as _reconciliation_. Using fancy optimized algorithms, React figures out what's changed. It sees that the button's text content has changed from "Value: 0" to "Value: 1".
- Once React has solved the puzzle and worked out what's different, it will need to  _commit_  these changes. With surgical precision, it updates the DOM, taking care to only tweak the things that need to be tweaked.

In this case, the operation would be something like:

    button.innerText  =  "Value: 1";

### Mount
- When we render the component for the first time, there is no previous snapshot to compare to. And so, React will create all of the necessary DOM nodes from scratch, and inject them into the page.

## Rendering vs. Painting

**In React, however, the term “render” means something slightly different.**

- When we talk about **“re-rendering” a component**, we aren't  _necessarily_  saying that anything will change in the DOM! We're saying we're going to check if anything's changed.  _If_  we spot a difference between snapshots, React will need to update the DOM, but it will be a precisely-targeted minimal change.

- When React  _does_  change a part of the DOM, the browser will need to  _re-paint_. A **re-paint** is when the pixels on the screen are re-drawn because a part of the DOM was mutated. This is done natively by the browser when the DOM is edited with JavaScript (whether by React, Angular, jQuery, vanilla JS, anything).

**To summarize:**

-   A  _re-render_  is a React process where we figure out what needs to change (AKA. “reconciliation”, the spot-the-differences game).
    
-   _If_  something has changed between the two snapshots, React will “commit” those changes by editing the DOM, so that it matches the latest snapshot.
    
-   Whenever a DOM node is edited, the browser will  _re-paint_, re-drawing the relevant pixels so that the user sees the correct UI.
    
-   **Not all re-renders require re-paints!**  If nothing has changed between snapshots, React won't edit any DOM nodes, and nothing will be re-painted.

React tries to keep the re-painting to a minimum, because re-painting is slow. Instead of generating a bunch of new DOM nodes from scratch (lots of painting), it figures out what's changed between snapshots, and makes the required tweaks with surgical precision.