# Why React Re-Renders
- A  re-render is not the same thing as a re-paint!

## The basic rule

- So, let's start with a fundamental truth:  **Every re-render in React starts with a state change.**  It's the only “trigger” in React for a component to re-render.

- When a component re-renders,  **it also re-renders all of its descendants.**

- In React, every state variable is attached to a particular component instance.

- Re-renders only affect the component that owns the state + its descendants (if any). The `App` component, in this example, doesn't have to re-render when the `count` state variable changes.

- Because data can't flow "up" in a React application, we know that this state change can't possibly affect `<App />`. And so we don't need to re-render that component.

- The point of a re-render is to figure out how a state change should affect the user interface. And so we need to re-render all potentially-affected components, to get an accurate snapshot.

 ## It's not about the props

- Alright, let's talk about  _**Big Misconception** #2_:  **A component will re-render because its props change.**

- When a component re-renders, it tries to re-render _all_ descendants, regardless of whether they're being passed a particular state variable through props or not.
- React's #1 goal is to make sure that the UI that the user sees is kept “in sync” with the application state. And so, React will err on the side of  _too many_  renders. It doesn't want to risk showing the user a stale UI.

- So, to go back to our misconception:  **props have nothing to do with re-renders.**  Our  `<BigCountNumber>`  component isn't re-rendering because the  `count`  prop changed.

- When a component re-renders, because one of its state variables has been updated, that re-render will cascade all the way down the tree, in order for React to figure out what the new snapshot should look like.