# Pure Components (React.memo)

- React provides an escape hatch we can use:  **the  `React.memo`  utility.**

Here's what it looks like:
```js
function  Decoration()  {
  return  (
	  <div className="decoration">
	     ⛵️
	  </div>
  );
}

const  PureDecoration  =  React.memo(Decoration);
export  default  PureDecoration;
```

- When the parent component re-renders, React will  _try_  to re-render the child  `PureDecoration`, but  `PureDecoration`  steps in and says “None of my props have changed, and so I won't be re-rendering this time.”

- This uses a technique known as  _memoization_.

- It's missing the R, but we can sorta think of it as “memo**r**ization”. The idea is that React will remember the previous snapshot. If none of the props have changed, React will re-use that stale snapshot rather than going through the trouble of generating a brand new one.


To summarize:

-   The only way to re-render anything in React is to update a state variable by calling a state-setter function (eg.  `setCount`).
    
-   When a component re-renders, it automatically re-renders all of its descendants, even if none of their props have changed.
    
-   We can wrap our component with  `React.memo`  to optimize it, so that it only re-renders if at least 1 of its props have changed since the last render.
    

**Why isn't this the default behaviour??**

- You might be wondering why the  `React.memo`  behaviour isn't the default. Surely we'd improve performance if we skipped rendering components that don't need to be rendered?

- I think as developers, we tend to overestimate how expensive re-renders are. In the case of our  `Decoration`  component, re-renders are lightning quick. If a component has a bunch of props and not a lot of descendants, it can actually be  _slower_  to check if any of the props have changed compared to re-rendering the component.

- And so, the official recommendation is to use  `React.memo`  as-needed, when trying to fix a performance issue. **You shouldn't need to apply it pre-emptively.**