# The useMemo Hook

- The fundamental idea with  `useMemo`  is that it allows us to  _“remember”_  a computed value between renders.

We generally use this hook for performance optimizations. It can be used in two separate-but-related ways:

1.  We can reduce the amount of work that needs to be done in a given render.
    
2.  We can reduce the number of times that a component is re-rendered.

## Use case 1: Heavy computations

- In JavaScript, we only have one main thread, and we're keeping it  _super_  busy by running this code over and over, every single second. It means that the application might feel sluggish as the user tries to do other things, especially on lower-end devices.

- **But what if we could “skip” these calculations?**  If we already have the list of primes for a given number, why not  _re-use_  that value instead of calculating it from scratch every time?
```js
const allPrimes =  React.useMemo(()  =>  {
const result =  [];

for(let counter =  2; counter < selectedNum; counter++)  {
	if  (isPrime(counter))  {
		result.push(counter);
	}
}
return result;
}, [selectedNum]);
```

This is precisely what  `useMemo`  allows us to do.

`useMemo`  takes two arguments:

1.  A chunk of work to be performed, wrapped up in a callback function
    
2.  A list of dependencies
    

- During mount, when this component is rendered for the very first time, React will invoke this function to run all of this logic, calculating all of the primes.  **Whatever we return from this function is assigned to the  `allPrimes`  variable.**

For every subsequent render, however,  **React has a choice to make.**  Should it:

1.  Invoke the function again, to re-calculate the value, or
   
3.  Re-use the data it already has, from the  _last_  time it did this work.
    
- To answer this question, React looks at the supplied list of dependencies. Have any of them changed since the previous render? If so, React will rerun the supplied function, to calculate a new value. Otherwise, it'll skip all that work and reuse the previously-calculated value.

**`useMemo`  is essentially like a lil’ cache, and the dependencies are the cache invalidation strategy.**

- When the component re-renders for _other_ reasons (eg. the `time` state variable changing), `useMemo` ignores the function and passes along the cached value.

You might also have noticed: the `useMemo` hook has a similar name to the `React.memo` helper

This is no coincidence! In fact, they both do similar things:

-   `React.memo`  memoizes the result of  _rendering a component_, only re-running when the  _props_  change.
    
-   `React.useMemo`  memoizes the result of a  _computation_, only re-running when the  _dependencies_  change.

## Use case 2: Preserved references

- By preserving the same reference across multiple renders, we allow pure components to function the way we want them to, ignoring renders that don't affect the UI.