# Elements Revisited

- The thing to understand is that **“creating an element” and “rendering a component” are two entirely different things.**

- We create an  `App`  element (`{ type: App }`), and pass that element to React. We're asking React to render this element for us.

- React elements are  _descriptions of something we want to create_.

- The element we've created,  `{ type: App }`  is like level 0. It doesn't tell us anything about the actual UI we want React to render!

- To get more granular, React has to render the  `App`  component. The  `App`  function returns a React element, a more granular picture of the application.

- React will then map over the `children` and recursively follow the same plan

- The fact that each  `counterElem`  is a reference to the same object doesn't really matter. React never considers this! Instead, this singular description is used multiple times, to render multiple components.

- We started at the top, with  `<App />`, and we've drilled down through the app. Whenever a React element was referencing a component, we've rendered that component, filling in the complete picture. Our sketch is complete!

- The cool thing here is that we have an exact description of the actual UI.

- Notice how our JS object describes this markup perfectly?

- In the past, the React team referred to this as the  _Virtual DOM_. Each component produces a chunk of JS that describes a slice of the application. By rendering components when we run into them, we can put all of those slices together and get a detailed sketch of the UI we want.

- After doing all of this work, React “commits” these changes by creating the necessary DOM nodes.

- _Props change all the time;_ we don't typically destroy/recreate a component instance when a prop changes!

- React elements are _descriptions_ of what we want. The _identity_ of that description doesn't matter.