# useReducer

The big innovation with  `useReducer`  is that it teases apart two separate ideas:

1.  The  _actions_  that fire in our application, like the user adding a new todo, or marking a todo as completed.
    
2.  The state-updating logic that runs when an action occurs.

-   Create a  `reducer`  function to hold all of the state-updating logic
    
-   Use the  `dispatch`  function to tell React when an action occurred
    
-   Update the 3 bits of business logic — creating a todo, toggling a todo, and deleting a todo — to use this new flow.

```jsx
function reducer(todos, action) {
  if (action.type === 'create-todo') {
    return [
      ...todos,
      {
        value: action.value,
        id: crypto.randomUUID(),
      },
    ];
  }
}

  const [todos, dispatch] = React.useReducer(reducer, []);
  
  function handleCreateTodo(value) {
    dispatch({
      type: 'create-todo',
      value,
    });
  }
```
- There's a more common convention when it comes to Redux: **switch/case statements**.

- In my mental model, each `case` is its own branch, its own mini environment. By adding squiggly brackets, we align reality to this mental model. Any variables created with `let` or `const` will be scoped to its branch.
-  We aren't using `break` here, but it's fine, since we abort the entire `reducer()` function call. Instead of halting execution of the switch/case, we halt execution of the entire function!

- In Redux, default cases are necessary, due to a quirk of how state gets initialized. With `useReducer`, however, we _don't_ typically need a default case.

The benefit is that it  _forces_  us to group our state-updating logic together. There is no  `setTodos`  function; the  _only_  way to change the  `todos`  state is to dispatch an action.

Also, because the  `reducer`  function lives outside our component, we can easily set up unit tests without requiring us to mount any components.

## Reducers are pure functions

- One gotcha with reducers is that they must be “pure” functions.

- A pure function is one that always returns the same  _output_  given the same  _inputs_.

- it makes sense to do any impure work outside of our reducers. Reducers are where all of the complexity lives, in terms of state changes, and we want them to be as simple and predictable as possible. Keeping them pure helps with that, and it means that they're easier to write unit tests for!
  
- The thing you want to watch out for is having lots of action types that start with “update” or “set”. Remember, your actions should describe the events that are taking place in your application. It's the reducer's job to figure out how to respond to those actions!
