
# Prop Delegation
- “forward” some props along
```js
function  LoggedInBanner({
 user,
  // Collect all unspecified props:
  ...delegated
}) {
  if (
  !user ||user.registrationStatus  ===  'unverified'){
  return  null;
  }

  // And pass them onto Banner:
  return  <Banner  {...delegated}  />
}
```
- I've chosen the name  `delegated`  because I feel like it's semantically appropriate, but we can name this variable whatever we want. Some folks prefer  `rest`


## A powerful tool in API design

When we produce React components, we get to decide how much power we want to give consumers. We can choose which properties they're allowed to overwrite, and which ones are mandatory / locked in.

```jsx
</label>
<input
 {...delegated}
 id={id}
 type="checkbox"
/>
```

- There's no right/wrong answer when it comes to where the `{...delegated}` should go. Rather, it's a choice we can use as a tool, to decide how much power/flexibility I want to grant to the developers consuming this component.

## Manually managing conflicts

- Sometimes, delegated props is too blunt of a tool, and we need to do some manual work to resolve the conflict.
```jsx
function  Template({ className =  ''  })  {
const appliedClass =  `built-in-class ${className}`;
	return  (
		<div
		className={appliedClass}
		/>
	);
}
```
To review, we have several options when it comes to conflicting attributes.

1.  If we want to allow the consumer to overwrite a particular hardcoded attribute, we can place the  `{...delegated}`  syntax afterwards.
    
2.  If we want to prioritize the hardcoded attribute, however, the  `{...delegated}`  syntax should come first.
    
3.  If we want to merge both values, we'll need to manage it ourselves, without using  `{...delegated}`.
    
All 3 of these options are valid in different situations. It all comes down to how much control we want to grant the consumer.

## Delegating Styles
1. Classname
2. Specific style variables exposed through props

### The arguments for specific props

- Components are meant to encapsulate markup, logic, _and styles_. If developers can apply any styles they want, then we don't truly have encapsulation. What's the point of having a design system if the developer can do whatever they want with the aesthetic?

- Design systems are living, breathing documents, and we can always update them as requirements change. But it's chaos to allow developers to apply any CSS they'd like to these components.

### The arguments for a “className” prop
- CSS is a huge, sprawling language. We could wind up with 50+ props, which would be a nightmare to maintain, and no fun at all to consume.

- Some codebases have multiple near-identical components because the prop interface wasn't flexible enough for them.

- It's just not realistic to come up with a handful of style-related props that will work for every possible use case. The real world is too messy for that.

### Josh's take

 - The real world really is too messy, and CSS really is too big and sprawling.  **So I like to add a  `className`  prop.**