# Forwarding Refs

 - A React element is a JavaScript object that describes a particular node in the React tree. When React renders, it'll invoke the  `Slider`  component, and pass along all of the  `props`  in this object.

-  **Here's the takeaway:**  `ref`  is a “reserved word” in React, like  `key`. When React creates the element, it  _plucks out_  these values, removing them from the props.

- In essence, the ref applies  _to the  `<Slider>`  element_, and not to the  `<input>`  within.

**How do we fix it?**  Well, one option is to come up with our  _own_  name for this prop. For example:
```jsx
// App.js
function  App()  {
  const sliderRef =  React.useRef();
	  return  (
	  <Slider
		forwardedRef={sliderRef}
	  />
  );
}

// Slider.js
function  Slider({ label, forwardedRef,  ...delegated })  {
  return  (
  <input
	ref={forwardedRef}
  />
  );
}
```
- Anything other than  `ref`  and  `key`, the two reserved prop names, will be passed through as props. So I can come up with whatever name I want, like  `forwardedRef`, to pass the ref through, to capture the  `<input>`  element inside  `Slider`.

- You'd have to see how the component is implemented to be sure.

- Fortunately, the React team has introduced a better solution: the  `React.forwardRef`  helper.

Like  `React.memo`,  `React.forwardRef`  is a  _higher-order component_. It's a function that takes a component as an argument, and returns an augmented version of that component.

```jsx
import  React  from  'react';
import  styles  from  './Slider.module.css';

function  Slider(
	{ label,  ...delegated },
	ref
) {
const id =  React.useId();
  return  (
	<div  className={styles.wrapper}>
		<label  htmlFor={id}  className={styles.label}>
			{label}
		</label>
		<input
		   ref={ref}
		   {...delegated}
		   type="range"
		   id={id}
		   className={styles.slider}
		/>
	</div>
	);
}

export  default  React.forwardRef(Slider);
```

- When React renders this component, it supplies a new 2nd argument: in addition to the  `props`  object (commonly destructured), we now receive a  `ref`. As the producer of this component, we can choose to apply this ref to whichever DOM node we choose.

- From the consumer side, it means we can always use the  `ref`  attribute, and things will Just Work:
	```jsx
	<Slider  ref={sliderRef}  />
	```

- The  `ref`  we apply to the  `<Slider>`  element will be forwarded to the Slider component when it's rendered.

## Memo and forwardRef?

- What if we want both  `React.memo`  and  `React.forwardRef`  on the same component?

- We can do it like this:
```js
export  default  React.memo(React.forwardRef(Slider));
```
- Each of these functions is known as a  _higher-order component_  — it takes a component as input, and produces a new component as output. And so we can "nest" these functions, and everything works the way you'd expect.