# Context

**Here's the basic formula:**

1.  Create a new context with  `React.createContext`.
    
2.  Use the  `Provider`  component, from that context, to wrap around the application. Pass it a bundle of values that you need in other parts of the app.
    
3.  Pluck the data you need from context, with the  `useContext`  hoo

- In practice, we almost always pass an object through context, since this allows us to package up multiple values together.

- Context is most commonly used for _global state_.

- **Here's my rule of thumb:** If I find I keep having to pass a prop _through_ a component. I should probably use context for it. I _keep_ having to pass a specific prop along, it's a sign that I should probably switch to context.

- Context goes outside the component, otherwise we end up creating new context on every render 

- Better to have multiple smaller context, rather than global all encompassing one.

- We can follow **Provider Components** pattern, where we can divide different context into its own provider components, along with its state and respective functions.

## Performance

- **Essentially, you can think of context as “internal props”.** It follows all the same rules as props. If the value held in context changes, this component will re-render.

So, here's our updated definition for how pure components work:

> A pure component will re-render if a  **prop, state variable,**  or 
> **context value**  changes.

## Memoizing context values

- In 90% of situations, we won't be passing a single value through context. We'll pass several things, packaged up in an object.

- Whenever we pass values in form of object in context, we need to memoize that object, so that only new object is created when one of the properties on object changes, not on every re-render of provider component.

- **children** gets regenerated on every render
	- We cannot memoize the components that receives react components (elements) as props
	