# React Fundamentals

- The truly magical thing about React is that we don't have to worry about keeping our state (held in JavaScript) and our UI (in the  DOM?) in sync.

- With React, we write code that describes what the UI  _should be_  based on the application state. React will be able to figure out what's changed, and will update the UI accordingly.

- React itself is “platform agnostic”. We have the core  `react`  package, which manages all of the magic, and then there are different platform-specific  _renderers_:

	-   `react-dom`  for the web
	    
	-   `react-native`  for mobile (iOS / Android) or desktop (Windows / MacOS) applications
	    
	-   `react-three-fiber`  for 3D scenes using WebGL and Three.js
	    
- Every platform has its own primitives. On the web, the primitives are our HTML elements like  `<div>`  and  `<p>`  and  `<button>`. By contrast, React Native doesn't have divs, it has  `Text`  and  `View`  and  `Pressable`. And things get even more wild with react-three-fiber, where the primitives are based on shapes and textures.

- All of these platforms will use the same core framework, which comes from the `react` package. But when it comes to actually turning all of the business logic into a user interface, we need the correct bindings for our platform.

- When we use a tool like React, it works by interacting with the DOM via JavaScript. It'll create, update, and delete DOM elements as required.

`React.createElement`  is a function that accepts 3 or more arguments:

	1.  The type of the element to create.

	2.  The properties we want this element to have.

	3.  The element's contents, what the element should have as children.

This function returns a “React element”.  React elements are plain old JavaScript objects. If we inspect it with  `console.log(element)`, we'll see something like this:

```js
{	
	type:  "p",
	key:  null,
	ref:  null,
	props:  {
	id:  'hello',
	children:  'Hello World!',
	},
	_owner:  null,
	_store:  {  validated:  false  }
}
```

- React elements form a hierarchy just like DOM elements do.

- You can think of the  `render`  function as a machine that converts React elements into DOM nodes. In this case, our React element describes a paragraph tag, with an ID, and some text inside.  `render`  will turn that description into the following DOM structure:
	```html
	<p  id="hello">
	 Hello World!
	</p>
	```

With that DOM element created, it then adds it to the page at the specified root. In essence, this code takes a JavaScript-based description of some HTML, and uses it to produce real-world DOM nodes.