# setState function update
- Instead of getting value from state snaphots, we are getting state value from component instance.

- In most cases either putting state as dependency array or callback fn inside setSttae function works equally well.

- Second one is useful when we don't want to do particular task on every state update, like adding - removing event listeners.

## The state-setter callback

- So far in this course, we've been calling state-setter functions with the new value:

```js
const  [count, setCount]  =  React.useState(0);

// sets `count` to `100`
setCount(100);
```

- There is an  _alternative syntax_  for state updates. If we want, we can pass a  _callback_, and React will invoke that function for us:

```js
// sets `count` to `100`:
	setCount(()  =>  {
	  return  100;
	});
```

- Whatever we return from this function becomes the new value for the state, as if we had passed that value directly.

- This is useful because  **React provides the current value:**

```js
setCount((currentCount)  =>  {
  return currentCount +  1;
});
```
- In most cases, this isn't necessary, since we already have access to the  `count`  variable. But, when working with effects, it becomes possible for us to lose access to the  _freshest version_  of a state variable.

### When to use the callback syntax

- Most of the time, we don't need to use the callback syntax. This alternative syntax is only necessary when it's possible for state variables to grow stale.

- Stale state variables aren't  _strictly_  a  `useEffect`  thing. It can also happen with other hooks that have dependency arrays, like  `useMemo`  and  `useCallback`.

- State values can also grow stale when we have asynchronous code, since it's possible for components to re-render while that asynchronous code is running.

**So, here's what I suggest:** use the default non-callback form by default. When you run into bugs, you can try the callback syntax to see if it helps. If it _does_, spend a few moments seeing if you can understand _why_. I promise, with enough practice, this stuff will eventually click.