# Strict Mode
- When we render our application, we wrap it in a `React.StrictMode` element:
```jsx
root.render(
<React.StrictMode>
  <App  />
</React.StrictMode>
);
```
- This element flips a switch inside React, adding in a bunch of restrictions and safeguards designed to improve the robustness of our application.

- Strict Mode automatically **reruns all effects.**
- And so, the following code is executed  _twice_, not once:
```js
function  handleKeyDown(event)  {
  if  (event.code  ===  'Space')  {
  setIsPlaying((currentIsPlaying)  =>  !currentIsPlaying);
  }
}
window.addEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);
```
- As a result, we register two event listeners, both connected to the same component instance. When we hit the "Space" key, we call `setIsPlaying(!false)`, setting it to  `true`... but then we immediately call it  _again_, setting it back to  `false`.
- To fix this problem, we can re-implement our cleanup function:
```js
return  ()  =>  {
window.removeEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);
};
````

In "Normal" mode, here's the sequence of operations:

-   Mount
-   Run effect
    
In Strict Mode, the sequence is:

-   Mount
-   Run effect
-   Run cleanup
-   Re-run effect

## More information about Strict Mode

In addition to re-running all effects, Strict Mode changes a number of other things. We can group these changes into 2 categories:

-   Safeguards designed to amplify potential issues
    
-   Warnings about deprecated APIs
    

Unless you find yourself working in a legacy codebase (at least 5 years old), you're not likely to run into any of the deprecation warnings.

- All of these safeguards follow the same pattern:  **running things twice.**

- For example, in Strict Mode, each render is automatically re-run.

## The new default

- While Strict Mode is technically an optional, “opt in” mode, it's quickly become the standard way to use React. Just about every boilerplate and meta-framework will use Strict Mode by default!

-	I want to make sure you're learning "real-world" React, and most real-world projects use Strict Mode.