# Event Handlers

- As the user interacts with the page, hundreds of events are fired off in response.

- The browser is like an invasive private investigator, tracking every little thing you do.

- When we're building dynamic web applications, these events become super important. We'll listen for these events, and use them to trigger state changes.

- In order to respond to an event, we need to listen for it. JavaScript provides a built-in way to do this, with the addEventListener method

  

The web platform offers another way to do this as well. We can embed our handler right in the HTML:

  
```html
    <button  onclick="doSomething()"> 
	    Click me!
    </button>
```
  

- React piggybacks on this pattern, allowing us to pass an event handler right in the JSX.

  

We should try and use the “on X” props like onClick and onChange whenever possible.

  

There are a few good reasons why:

  

1. Automatic cleanup. Whenever we add an event listener, we're also supposed to remove it when we're done, with removeEventListener. If we forget to do this, we'll introduce a memory leak. React automatically removes listeners for us when we use “on X” handler functions.

  

2. Improved performance. By giving React control over the event listeners, it can optimize things for us, like batching multiple event listeners together to reduce memory consumption.

No DOM interaction.

  

3. React likes for us to stay within its abstraction. We generally try and avoid interacting with the DOM directly. In order to use addEventListener, we have to look up the element with querySelector. This is something we should avoid. The “happy path” in React involves letting React do the DOM manipulation for us.

  

- One of the core ideas behind React is that it does the DOM manipulation for you. When using React, you shouldn't really be using querySelector at all. We want to stay within React's abstraction, rather than trying to compete with it to manage the DOM.

## Passing a function reference

When working with event handlers in React, we need to pass a reference to the function. We don't call the function, like we do in HTML:


    // ✅ We want to do this:
    <button  onClick={doSomething}  />
    
    // 🚫 Not this:
    <button  onClick={doSomething()}  />

  

- When we include the parentheses, we invoke the function right away, the moment the React application is rendered. We don't want to do that; we want to give React a reference to the function, so that React can call the function at a later time, when the user clicks on the button.  

## Wrapper function (for functions with arguments):


    // ✅ Valid:
    <button  onClick={()  => setTheme('dark')}>
	    Toggle theme
    </button>

- We're creating a brand-new anonymous arrow function, () => setTheme('dark'), and passing it to React, to be called when the user clicks the button.
- When the button is clicked, the function is called, and the code inside the function is executed: setTheme('dark').
- setTheme.bind(null, 'dark') also works


