# Complex state

- React doesn't care what type our state is. We can store numbers or strings or arrays or objects. We can even store  _functions_  in state if we want!

- **But there's a catch:**  React state changes have to be  _immutable_. When we call  `setColors`, we need to provide a  _brand new_  array. We should never mutate arrays or objects held in state.
- when setting object as state variable, make sure in setFn always provide new object to react, since object refernces will be compared than object values, and if old object is mutated, react will not be able to recognise that, since it will be comparing refernces only.

## Never mutate React state (even when it seems to work)

In the solution above, the order of operations was:

1.  Create a new array
    
2.  Modify that new array
    
3.  Set the new array into state
    

You might be wondering: is it OK to flip the order of the first two steps? What if we modify the array, then clone it? Like this:
```jsx
    <input
      onChange={event  =>  {
      // Mutate the array:
     colors[index]  = event.target.value;
     
      // Create a new copy, and set it into state:
      setColors([...colors]);
      }}
    />
```
- Seems a bit simpler, right? Make whatever modifications we want, and then copy the array right before we call  `setColors`, so that we're providing a new value. And if you try this in the above sandbox, it appears to work?

- **Here's the problem:**  By doing it this way, we're modifying the values held in React state. React  _really_  doesn't expect us to do this, and there are no guardrails in place to warn us if we try.

- You might get away doing this once, but if you make a habit of it, you'll likely start encountering weird / glitchy behaviour. Maybe a random part of the page won't update when it's supposed to.

- **These bugs are really hard to diagnose and fix.**  You'll save yourself a whole lot of trouble if you do your best to avoid mutating React state.

**It's a good idea to test our intuition with this stuff.** If you ever find yourself wondering whether a chunk of code is slow or not, give it a quick test and see for yourself!
```js
    const start =  Date.now();
    let nextColors;
    
    for (let i =  0; i <  1000; i++) {
      nextColors =  [...colors];
      nextColors[index]  = event.target.value;
    }
    
    console.log(Date.now()  - start)
```
- `Date.now()`  produces a large number like  `1676568321545`; it's the number of milliseconds since January 1, 1970. It's a numerical representation of the current time.

- We store a reference to the time _before_ doing the expensive work. And afterwards, we check again, and take the difference. This gives us the number of milliseconds that have elapsed between the two timestamps, telling us how long the work took.