# Data Binding
```jsx
    <>
      <form>
        <label htmlFor="search-input">
          Search:
        </label>
        <input
          type="text"
          id="search-input"
          value={searchTerm}
          onChange={(event) => {
            setSearchTerm(event.target.value);
          }}/>
      </form>
	      <p>
	        Search term: {searchTerm}
	      </p>
      <button
	      onClick={() => setSearchTerm(Math.random())}>
        Click me
      </button>
    </>
```
- When we do value='something', react input element is bound by that value, we cannot change it now, however if we don't apply the arrtribute by default we can change the value from input typing
- **SyntheticBaseEvent** if fired in React - mimics a standard browser event, nativeEvent inside SyntheticBaseEvent is orginal DOM event.
- target - elemnt that trigerred that event
- Two way data binding - when there is change in state in react, we change 'value' property of input element, when there is change by user-event on input element we change react state.
- This makes sure, if there is change in react state other than input element, changes get reflected in input element.

## Controlled vs. Uncontrolled inputs

- When we set the  `value`  attribute on a form control, we tell React that it should be a  _controlled element_. The word “controlled” has a specific definition in React; it means that React is managing the input.

- By contrast, if we don't set  `value`, the input is an  _uncontrolled element_. This means that React doesn't do any management.

- There's a golden rule here:  **An element should always either be controlled or uncontrolled.**  React doesn't like when we flip an element from one to the other.

- When we set  `value`  to  `undefined`, it's the same as not setting it at all. React will treat the input as an  _uncontrolled element_.

- When the user starts typing in the input, the  `onChange`  event updates the value of  `username`  from  `undefined`  to a string. And so, React flips the element to a  _controlled element_, and raises the warning.

**Here's how to solve the problem:**  We always want to make sure we're passing a defined  `value`. We can do this by initializing  `username`  to an empty string:
```js
    // 🚫 Incorrect. `username` will flip from `undefined` to a string:
    const  [username, setUsername]  =  React.useState();
    
    // ✅ Correct. `username` will always be a string:
    const  [username, setUsername]  =  React.useState('');
```
 - With this change, our input is being controlled by React state from the very first render, since we're always passing a defined value. Even though empty strings are considered falsy they still “count” when it comes to controlling React inputs.