# The onClick Parable
```html
       <form
          className="search-form"
          onSubmit={event => {
            event.preventDefault();
            runSearch(searchTerm);
          }}
        >
          <input
            type="text"
            value={searchTerm}
            onChange={event => {
              setSearchTerm(event.target.value);
            }}
          />
          <button>
            Search!
          </button>
        </form>
```
- `runSearch` is the function we want to call when the user clicks/taps the "Search!" button. In a real app, it would make a network request, and update some state with the results.
- To solve this problem, along with so many others, we should wrap our form controls in a  `<form>`  tag.

- Then, instead of listening for clicks and keys, we can listen for the  _form submit event_.

- The form submit event will be called automatically when the user clicks the button, or presses "Enter" whenever the input or button is focused. When that event fires, we'll run our search.

- Instead of trying to re-create a bunch of standard web platform stuff, we should  _use the platform_  and let it solve these sorts of problems for us!

By using a form submit event, we get to use  _client-side validation_:
```html
    <input
      type="password"
      required={true}
      minLength={8}
    />
 ```
 ## Default form behavior

- Alright, so there  _is_  one little quirk with using  `onSubmit`. We need to prevent the default submission behavior
  
- forms make network request onSubmit by default.

- To understand why this is necessary, we need to take a trip back through time, to an era without client-side requests. Before  `fetch`, before  `XMLHttpRequest`, before JSON.

- If you wanted to make a request to a server, like when fetching search results, you couldn't request only the data. You needed to request a whole new HTML file. Essentially, the user would be redirected to a new URL, and the server would then render a template into an HTML document, using the data sent with the request.

**Forms still operate this way by default.**  When you submit a form, the browser will try to send the user to the URL specified by the  `action`  attribute:
```html
  <!--
     Submitting this form will redirect the user to the
     /search page, sending along the data collected from
     the form fields.
    -->
    
    <form
      method="POST"
      action="/search"
    >
```
- If we omit the  `action`  attribute, the browser will use the  _current_  URL, effectively reloading the page.

- In the context of a modern React application, this isn't usually what we want. We don't want to reload the entire page, we want to fetch a bit of data and re-render a few components with that data. This produces a faster, smoother user experience.

That's why we need to include  `event.preventDefault()`. It stops the browser from executing a full page reload.