# Other Form Controls
- In addition to the text inputs we've been using so far, the web platform provides  _lots_  of additional form controls. They include:

	-   Textareas
	-   Radio buttons
	-   Checkboxes
	-   Selects
	-   Ranges
	-   Color pickers
   
- If you've ever had to work with these form controls outside of React, you've likely been surprised/frustrated by how dissimilar they are from one another.

- For example, textareas define the current value  _as children_, rather than using a  `value`  prop
- As another example, select tags use a `selected` prop on one of the `<option>` children to signify the selected value
	```html    
	  <option  value="b"  selected>
		    Option 2
	  </option>
	```  
- **Here's the good news:**  React has tweaked many of these form controls so that they all behave much more similarly. There's a lot less chaos with form controls in React.

Essentially, all form controls follow the same pattern:

1.  The current value is tracked using either  `value`  (for most inputs) or  `checked`  (for checkboxes and radio buttons).
    
2.  We respond to changes with the  `onChange`  event listener.

## Select tag

- The  `<select>`  tag allows the user to select a single option from a list of predefined options.

* When working with select tags in React, they work pretty much exactly like text inputs. We use  `value`  and  `onChange`.

* By setting the `value` prop, we make this a controlled component, binding the selected option to our React state. When we add the `onChange` event listener, we allow this state to be changed by selecting a different option from the list.

Cheatsheet - https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/joy-of-react/02-state/11-bonus-cheatsheet